---
title: Cohort Study
narratives: null
tags:
- !!python/object/new:textblob.blob.Word args: - cohort state:   string: cohort   pos_tag: null
---
**Scenario:**

I study racial disparities among African Americans with cardiovascular
diagnoses. I rely on results published in journal articles for guiding
my research. I want access to the underlying data to have control over
defining my cohort and analysis. At the very least, I want to
reproduce these studies before trusting them as the basis for my
study. I use the Framingham and Jackson Heart data but I want to bring
in more data than what is available in dbGap.

**Current approach:**

Right now I have separate logins for the datasets I want to use and
require separate approvals. I don’t have the ability to download all
studies I identified and store all of that data locally. I don’t have
the funds or technical support to use it in the cloud. I perform
search queries over and over until I have the data I think I need and
download that to analyze with a software package I purchased. I want
to have a single way to use that data together without downloading it
all to my computer. And it has to be secure.

**With Data Commons Phase 1:**

Data is readily accessed in the cloud. Multiple datasets are supported
and can be linked through a common metadata model. A query returns
data that matches the researcher’s data access approval and the study
consent. The researcher can label their new cohort. The researcher can
use a secure workspace and pre-made tools to analyze their cohort.

**With Data Commons longer vision:**

Data is automatically put into a common data model and linked across
studies. The data has been deemed FAIR. The researcher can bring their
own data to the cloud workspace to expand their cohort. The pool of
supported data sets is greatly expanded. The researcher can publish
their cohort for other researchers to use. They can find a cohort
defined for a different study, use the same workflow to reproduce the
results, and their own methodology to re-analyze the same data.